---
up: 0009
title: 'Release 7.0.5'
date-created: 2025-03-14
author: '@0D'
status: DEPLOYED
discussions-to: 'N/A'
on-chain-proposal-id: 09
date-executed: TBD
---


# UP-0009

Implements Proposal 2503-01
Changes a parameter on the threshold in which competitive bidding begins in Proof-of-Fee. During the experimental mode of PoF v0, there was a safety threshold where the competitive bidding only began when the count of candidate validators was greater than 21. This threshold is removed, and competition begins and the minimum viable validator count (four validators).

# Note on numbering
The previous proposal up-0005 used up sequence numbers 5, 6, 7, 8 for the upgrade. So this upgrade syncs versions with the available sequence number on chain. The code release number is unrelated (7.0.5).

##### Lazy mode


```
# vote on the proposal
libra txs governance vote --proposal-id 9

```


## Compatibility

Code version 7.0.5 is a backward compatible Move upgrade. Meaning the upgrade does not need to be forced, since no APIs have changes.

Of the three Move modules only `libra-framework` is being upgraded with a force backwards incompatible method. `stdlib` and `vendor-stdlib` are unchanged in this software version, and as such a multi-step upgrade is unnecessary.

## Status

- PROPOSED

This proposal is to upgrade the libra-framework from 7.0.4 > 7.0.5

## Proposed Changes

NOTE: These changes only describe Move system smart contract policies. Full changelog can be seen at: https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra-framework/releases/tag/7.0.5


The following is the changelog of this latest release:

- [move] lower threshold of validator competition [(#352)](https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra-framework/pull/352)


**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra-framework/compare/7.0.4...7.0.5

## Script Hash

`0xc1a30327718e6cb27c2f38cf008b8872d779092277671c3793831b6fa5b9f525`

# Upgrade Instructions

7.0.5 is a Hot Upgrade which only contains upgrades to system smart contracts, and NO node software updates.

# Workflow
Hot upgrades should follow this documentation: https://docs.openlibra.io/validators/hot-upgrades

## Reproducing the artifacts
The artifacts were build with
```
git checkout release-7.0.5
cd ./framework
# build the files
libra move framework upgrade \
--output-dir <path/to>/upgrades/proposals/up-0009 --framework-local-dir . \
--core-modules libra-framework \
--danger-force-upgrade
```

### Proposing
```
# assuming you have this repo locally
cd <path/to>/upgrades/proposals/up-0009/1-libra-framework

libra txs governance propose \
--proposal-script-dir ./ \
--metadata-url https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/upgrades/tree/main/proposals/up-0009.md
```
